Oh yes.
Okay. So, this session I want to try and record, 2 things. I want to try and record.
Sort of chapter for this manuscript at the beginning. Which is going to talk about ranganathan and also about climate change.
And then I want to. Talk at the end about our technology to give a summary of that so that we can.
End up with what we do. Okay. So.
Today there was a report from the University of Leeds in UK which said that we only had 5 more years before climate change was irreversible something of that sort.
I don't know exactly what it is. I've searched for it on the web, and I can't find it, but it was on the BBC this morning.
So it's headline news that we on crisis mode for climate. And of course, All of you will know much more about it because India has been suffering extreme heat.
And it's been so bad that it gets reported in the UK, which isn't common.
So it's clear that the climate is getting hotter and we're getting more extreme events. So I'm going to show you one or 2.
Extreme events. That I get from today's Twitter. I follow a number of people on Twitter.
Clear my screen a bit. And somewhere other I've got some of these. Pictures.
Which I put up here. So this is a typical one. That's actually 2 days ago.
Elliott Jacobson is a daily commentator on I'm I sharing the screen?
Yeah
Oh, okay. I'm recording but not sharing the screen. Right. It's easy to get confused.
No, no.
Right, I'll start again. Sharing the screen. Okay.
So today there was a report by the University of Leeds which was on the BBC main news. About how serious climate change was.
And, they said that we only had 5 years, to turn things round or it would be too late.
I don't know the details. Because I can't find it elsewhere on the web.
But I'm sure we will find it. I follow the number of people on climate. On Twitter x and here is A typical example from And today And this is from.
And Elliot Jacobson who is one of the. Most prominent commentators. And he gives a daily graph of temperature in this case global surface temperature anomalies And here you can see the older sea surface.
And then on the scale getting gradually. more recent and as it gets more recent, the temperature of the sea increases.
And so here's the pre-industrial baseline. And we are now in terms of the sea.
About 1.6. Above the pre-industrial base. It varies a lot, but he's plotted here last year.
2,023. And yellow, I'll make this a bit bigger. If I can.
So, That's last year and then this year, 2,024 is red.
And that is. At every point it is higher than last year and it's higher about by about point 2 degrees.
Now there are lots of possible explanations for this. And But there's no doubt in scientists mind that this is due to Global heating through fossil fuel emission.
And there's another effect called El Nino, and which is part of the Pacific. Ocean and heat system and that has produced a spike but not enough to account for all of this.
And so, We have. Both a clear signal here and also a place where we can potentially help.
So you can see here that we've got things like global surface temperature anomalies. What does this mean?
That is the sort of thing that we have to use our glossaries to understand. I picked up a few more.
Of these I'm going to just. Collapse these. Here's another one.
This is, Leon's Simons, who's a very daily commentator as well.
And this is decadal warming. Now you see this is a technical term. And it actually means 10 years, but the average a reader of this won't necessarily, understand this.
And it can be a little bit difficult to understand these graphs. This is actually a 2 year period.
On the bottom here but this is the global surface temperature increase. And you can see that, the blue one is 10 years ago, approximately.
And this is the current one. So this is heated up. A great deal.
And here's another one. This is today. And this, commentator is talking about the Amok Ocean current.
Which if it collapse it will mean that, Europe, particularly the UK, it's the same temperature as same climate as Labrador.
Lambberdor has ice for much of the winter period. So temperatures could drop. A great deal in the UK.
And again, you can see the language used, the North Atlantic sub Polar Gyre.
In CM. 6 models that's not. Understandable by the average person including me and that's where our glossary becomes really important.
So what we providing. Is the ability to automatically look up terms like North Atlantic sub, in our climate dictionary, and then to link to the wider transportation in both the IPCC material and also Wiki data Wikipedia.
So here let me bring in the other reason for writing this article, which is honoring.
R. Ranganophon And here is his 5 laws of library science. Published nearly a century ago.
And we're honoring his centenary when he started this. And one of the things that, He did just create these laws and the second law I think is particularly relevant here.
Every person his book And so her book. And it means that librarians should save, serve a wide collection of people.
Now, we are extending librarians to, mean producers of public knowledge. And so That includes, a large amount of what's available on the open web.
And particularly those people who are creating organized material that they want other people to read. And so his second law says, that librarians should respect that everyone's different, everyone has different tastes.
Regarding the books. And he named children, physically disabled, artisans, which means workers, crafts, people.
Newly literate adults. The intellectually disabled. Working class individuals.
And individuals with niche interests. Now that's a hundred years ago in the language, you know, of a different class structured society, but we can translate that into modern terms and say that he would urge that this material is available to a very wide range of people and that's why we've set our sites on making him available to a very wide range of people and that's why we've set our sites on making him available to high school
students. People with impaired vision, people whose 1st language is not English and so on.
Now Much of this material is published in either the scientific scholarly literature, I'll probably call that scientific literature, and and also in the formal reports of the IPCC and FCC.
Now the IPCC is a secondary, publisher. It takes, scientific reports from the literature and elsewhere government and other authorities that can be believed.
But it turns it into a secondary publication, where all of this is reviewed and and analyzed.
And so It uses the language that is. Use by the office of these documents.
And you've seen a little bit of that. And a few minutes ago, things like North Atlantic gyre and C MIP 6.
Decadal things like that and this Immediately it's a turn off for all of the people that Ranganathan would want to
Maintenance available for so our goal. In this is to try and interpret what Ranganathan would want to do.
In this time of crisis. He was clearly, very motivated for open publication. It was different.
90 years ago. But. He would, undoubtedly now be a champion of open access.
University academic community as he's put here and I think he would be very disappointed in the current approach to scholarly publication, which is that you write only for specialists in your own field.
That much of this is not available because it's closed access. And even if it's open access, it's extremely, unfriendly to understand.
So our goal is to try and think what Ranganison would do today. And faced with this problem.
So let's take the hypothesis that he would want all of the climate to be available as widely as possible.
For a huge range. Of people, not just academics. So, he would, I believe, see knowledge as a public good.
In other words, the purpose of publishing is, that the knowledge, is something valuable to the world, not that a publication is there to enhance people's career.
Obviously if you publish important discoveries your career will be enhanced but the primary purpose of the publication system is to make knowledge available for the community for reuse re-understanding.
And to create. Good in itself. Now, he saw that as both a social and task here and also a technical task.
So. If we go back to him, I think this will take us back to him.
He came up with something called the colon. Classification. Here and in the colon classification, he's anticipating what we are doing with dictionaries probably again, 90 years ahead of what we're doing.
So the colon classification, creates facets. So rather than having a single, way of referring to a piece of information.
I say by a DOI or web address or a page in a journal. He said that there were subclassifications.
Which were important. And he described here. Things like matter, energy, space, time, etc.
And they are associated with every item in the library. So these are really core parts. Of this.
And this is what now what we would refer to as an ontology. Now, there have been many, approaches to ontology over the last I will say probably 50 years, something like that.
It goes back longer than that. It goes back to the Greeks. The ancient Greeks but here machine ontologies probably go back about 50 years.
And, they are classification systems. And they do this by coming up with defined subjects of some sort, represented by terms.
And those are interpreted, and they're in a navigation system, often a hierarchical classification system.
Yeah, he's got facets and the thing about facets is they're not necessarily, hierarchical.
And here are 6. 7. 8 classifications. It's medicine, lungs, tuberculosis.
Treatment x-ray research India and 1,950. And because And those days, space was limited.
You had to write this on a punch card, a, you know, I, little file card you often had abbreviation so you can see here that He's classified this to a number of numbers here and those numbers will refer to the subjects up there.
And this is still, very much a mainstream of classification today. And, we are, using systems.
Schema.org, was created, by a number of,
Web communities, particularly at some of the search engines. And, we'll look at schema.
Dot org.
Here Collaborative, community activity to create, maintain, and promote schemas for structured data on the internet on webpages and beyond.
So I would say that schema.org was a direct modern interpretation of, Ranganathan's ideas of, faceted, classification.
So here you can see Organisation of schemas. The language used is often a little bit abstract.
But here you can see high level things like person organization event place exactly the sorts of things that Ranganathan would have, expected to be in this but the advantage we have that he didn't have is we have the electronic Meedium which allows us to capture the works but also to use tools to navigate.
Find and interpret. At what we've got. So. The faceted classification, is key to much of what we do.
Take a breath. Have a drink.
So how does this relate to climate change? Well, I think the most obvious place, is that, we have a classification system.
In the climate literature created by the IPCC. And that's a glossary.
I will just show it here. let's just go to.
Are we well enough?
And page semantic climate, this is us, isn't it? So we're easy to find.
And If we go here to Resources And this is really important. We've got all these things here and then we've got our enhanced glossary.
So our glossary here. Which we have scraped from. Ipcc and which Simon as Beautifully typeset using CS.
SA. Let's see if I can make it a little bit bigger.
Yeah, we've got
A term, a, this is an important term. It relies to, the loss of material from glaciers.
Which is very serious at the moment. we're losing Antarctic glaciers at an alarming rate and then we'll need to see level rise.
Which is not Reversible. But here you see we've got ablation which is term.
We've got a description here which IPCC have created. We've got a parent term that's, common in these classification systems.
And then we have added as a community we've added. Translations into different languages. Hindi and German.
So let's, Click on and to that next page. In some cases we are able to link through to Wiki data and Wikipedia.
So here in abrupt climate change, we've been able to. Link to, Wikipedia, which gives us an additional, understanding and then if we click on this oh, I'm meant to go.
You know this was the issue.
That we've got an issue here. I think if we go, if we go to,
Yes.
After the F.
After F, it works. Okay.
Yes. From F it works.
Go to the triple lines that in the starting of the for 3 lines. The 3 lines yes You click on the F.
Right, okay. And we get Right, excellent. Okay, so.
Yes.
I've never heard of this. Right, patches on the sun. IPCC think they're important. They probably are.
Some people are arguing, for example, that global warming is just due to sunspots. So let's go to Wikipedia.
And so here it's actually a, ambiguous term. So So La Facula
And here you see if you want to read more about it, you've got it in Wikipedia, you've got references and you've got links to other things which you can follow.
So We are using, these annotations here. Go back, go back in.
On the 700 terms. To give us both more understanding and also, more navigability and the ability to annotate.
So I would say that, We are trying to honor Ranganison's vision of universal access to knowledge.
Now, a second, part of what, his legacy has left us is, his 5 laws.
Let me go back to. I probably had them somewhere or other.
Any, let me minute while I find it.
Yeah, he is.
Somewhere it must have 5 goals.
Sorry about this.
5 laws. Okay. Right. So we'll go to This one saved the time of the reader.
Now, I will argue. That. Or we will argue that the current scientific literature is appalling.
It breaks the 4th law almost every time you see a publication. That, There is no semantics.
There's no.
There's no sort of condescension, to anyone outside the specialist academic system.
And, readers spend huge amounts of time. Trying to understand what's going on. So we believe that by making things semantic it will save the time of the reader inormously.
So if we have a semantic version of the paper, machines will able to find will be able to find forests those things which otherwise we would have to manually look up.
So where you have to look up what a term means. The semantic version will allow us to navigate their immediately.
Where we want to, hyperlink, to another people of information. The
Samantic version will allow us to do that. Automatically. And because climate change is so important it's so critical.
We believe that we can add semantics to the type of material that we've been showing you, in these screenshots.
So if we go back here, we would see ourselves as using the semantic glossary and the semantic thinks to Wikipedia to make this much easier to understand.
So we would be saving the time of the reader in understanding climate change. Now,
So. I've covered. A lot of what I wanted to say to make sure we get it in.
Main. Urgency for this is the very very short timescale of climate change. Some people think, that it is too late to do anything.
I believe that even if there's only a 1 in a thousand chance, we've got to go for that one in a thousand chance.
And to try and help the world as much as possible. So our goal is to make semantic tools which allow us to push forward the understanding of climate information.
We can't easily change politicians minds. We can't easily change the oil companies minds. But what we can do, is to make it easier to find information.
Mainly in documentary for in document form. And make that as easily available to as wider range of breeders as possible.
Because we're electronic, we can alert people to it. So to give a an example, we can't do this at the moment, but it would be possible to take this tweet and build a tool which automatically told us what the A.
Monk was. Lamprador was, what the, sub polar jar was and so on.
So I believe that we can add Reader prosthetics to help us do that. So.
We will make it easy to understand. And I believe that we will be able to Also, help in 2 areas.
One is mitigation. So it may be possible still to mitigate and climate change. By increasing the pressure to show how fossil fuels are and increasing climate change.
And that's where I'll work on chapter 3. Of, sorry, working group 3 will be valuable.
Can we take working group 3, 17 chapters and Make it clearer what the issues are in mitigation.
And also can we do that in adaptation? So chapter a working group 2 is about adaptation.
Can we show those issues which are related to adaptation. Now, AR 6. Came out.
Between one and 3 years ago. We're entering into the next 7 year cycle here, but I heard today.
On the news again, I don't have a chapter in verse that the IPCC is going to be, reviewing, climate change on a more regular basis.
So when that happens, it, our tools will be really important. Cool understanding those reports that come out because if they're written in language like this, we won't understand them.
We've got to May our tools available so we can automatically translate that into things which people can understand.
Now, when Ghana sent talked about saving the time of the reader. In his day, Everything was books in a physical library.
But where in the business of modern information in terms of information being created by authorities being found on the web being transformed, all sorts of things like that.
So So I believe that Ranganison would mean, very involved in knowledge creation. And so I'm going to add either to the 4th law another law called save the time of the author.
So when we offer, material, We should do it in a way which is as Quick to create as possible.
And as easy to create semantic material. As possible. So I would add to this that we want, to make it easy, to create semantic material.
For people who are not specialists in this area. And I think that's the area we'll come to in our.
Second, chunk of material. So I think I've covered. Everything I wanted to in general.
Before we close this down Are there things that people think that we've omitted in terms of this joint introduction about ranganathan and climate change.
No, I think this included all the team points. The laws and about the planet.
Yes. So what we're going to do is we're going to, Close this down.
See what the transcript is like. post it all to our
Coordination. Have I posted? Yes, i oh i hadn't clicked the post button you should now be able to see our 1st session. You should now be able to see our 1st session.
So I'm going to do the same for 1st session. So I'm going to do the same for this session and post it.
So That will mean that I'm going to Stop sharing. And then close. then I'm going to close the recording.
I think it's very important to close the recording. Before, we end the session. Sometimes it does it automatically, but we have lost things.
So any comments before we do that?
Yeah, no, did you save the transcript because I did. So they want me to send it or will you send it?
You paste it in as well and we'll, we'll see, but I think.
Yeah.